1
SDL Payload Challenge Rules and Information
SDL is excited to be involved with IREC and to sponsor the SDL Payload Challenge. After all,
there’s no reason to launch a rocket unless there’s a payload! SDL is offering $2,250 in cash
prizes to teams that produce meaningful payloads.
Owned by Utah State University, Space Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) has been solving the
technical challenges faced by the military, science community, and industry for over 65 years.
With over 1400 employees, including 180+ university students, SDL provides multi-domain
mission solutions (Space, Air, Land, Sea, and Cyber) with expertise in satellites, sensors and
instruments, ground systems and data processing, and advanced autonomous systems.
SDL’s mission includes inspiring and engaging tomorrow’s workforce through a variety of reallife hands-on experiences. ESRA’s International Rocket Engineering Competition (IREC) with
the SDL Payload Challenge does exactly that – gives you a hand’s on, high level experience!
To Enter the SDL Payload Challenge: Submit an SDL Payload Challenge Entry Form no later
than May 31, 2026. SDL Payload Challenge Forms are available for download from the IREC
Documents & Forms page on the ESRA website; email to: payloadchallenge@sdl.usu.edu
To learn more about SDL, go to https://www.sdl.usu.edu/
Awards:
• 1st Place Payload Award: $1000
• 2nd Place Payload Award: $750
• 3rd Place Payload Award: $500
• SDL Technology Relevance Award
• Honorable mentions as warranted (Judge’s discretion)
Judging Criteria (1000 points possible):
• Scientific or Technical Objective(s) (400 points)
⁻ How relevant and well-designed is your scientific or technical objective?
• Payload Construction and Overall Professionalism (250 points)
⁻ Includes make/buy decisions, craftsmanship, material usage, poster, handouts, reports,
etc.
• Readiness / Turnkey Operation (50 points)
⁻ Will the payload interfere with launch operations? Will the payload operate after hours of
launch preparation, rail time, heat, waiting for other launches, etc?
• Execution of Objective(s) (300 points)
⁻ Judges should be informed of results no later than Saturday at noon by email:
payload@sdl.usu.edu or in person, or a zero in this category will be assessed.
⁻ How well did it accomplish the objective(s)?
⁻ Note: That rocket failure results in 150 points (half credit – don’t know if payload would
have worked or not)
SDL Payload Challenge Rules and Information
2
SDL Technology Relevance Award
• This is a separate award for innovative ideas related to the three areas listed below and has
no impact on the overall SDL Payload Challenge score. It is a recognition award in the form
of a certificate that will be highlighted in the IREC Awards Ceremony.
• This provides an opportunity for students to focus on and integrate technologies relevant to
SDL's mission into their payload.
• SDL Technology Areas: Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, and Infrared